# Introduction-to-Excel #
## What is excel ##
Excel is a powerful spreadsheet program designed by microsoft to analyze, calculate, organize data and visualize data using a grid of cells arranded in rows and columns.
## Ways that excel is used in real world data Analysis ##
Excel can be essential in different sectors as it is used to manage data and analyze data. Below are some of the ways that excel can be used in real worlDs data analysis
1. **Business Decisions**- Excel can be used in various sectors in making business decisions. Professionals involved in making short term or long term activities require reliable data that is clear to be able to make decisions on what changes or improvements should be done to be able to achieve the desired outcomes. By using graphs that can be generated from Excel after entering data they can be able to understand the best performing area of the organization and the areas that are not doing well. This will help the professionals in various levels to make the strategic, tactical  and operational decisions.
1. **Financial Reporting**- Financial reporting can be done by using excel where the raw data that is collected overtime can be transformed into formal statements like balance sheets, income statements and cashflows. By using functions like sumifs one can be able to determine the totals of various categories at a go without wasting much time. Excel allows autoamation by linking with various data bases to pull large data that can be summarized as pivot tables which can be used quickly to come up with monthly reports.
1. **Marketing Performance**-Excel can be used in monitoring the performance in one centarilzed location where the different data collected from different points can be shared and analyzed. One can be able to check the performance of an item in a particular location through filters and slicers and sorting of the items. Excel can help in visualizing trends by help of pivot charts that can be easily interpreted.
## 3 Excel features or formulas and how they can be applied ##
1. Flash Fill- This feature helps detect the partern on the data that is being entered and can be able to save time. For example the numbering, splitting two names into separate names  excel detects and fills the rest of the column.
2. Sorting and Filtering- This feature helps get the specific data or information required on a certain subject without scrolling one by one. For example when some one wants to know the number of employees in an organization that work in a certain department one can sort the data based on the department they are looking for.
3. Conditional Formating- This helps change the color or the fonts of data based on the rules that are set. For example one can change the color of the employees who did not submit their KPIs on time or those that did not submit., This will help in easy identification of the employees.
## How excel has changed my view on data ##
Excel has helped me understand that the data that is presented can be analyzed, filterd and manipulated in other ways to find more about certain data. Large data sets can be easily summarized through different pivot tables to come up with simpler and easily understadable formats that save on the time required to go through data.
